---
date: 11-04-2024
author: Neuron
path: blog/content/2024/11-04
title: 11th April, 2024
keywords:
---

# Halo Halo Bandung Day 3 (Last) 😞

Hello readers 😄
Many thanks if you managed to read my last two blogs. I still have lots of room for improvement in writing. As of today, I feel that my typing speed is going faster and faster hehe.

This blog will be about my last day in Bandung. There are still so many places for me to visit like Cihapit Night Market, Tegallega Park, or Tegalluar Station. I will come back here someday, so stay tuned.

But for now, It's time for a farewell...

## 09:00
### Checking out from the hotel

After taking care of myself, I checked out from the hotel. A great place to stay. Thank you for your service.

I took a microbus using the same route as my last day. However, I will stop at Paskal Hyper Square due to its proximity to Bandung Station.

<Transportation id="bus-1"/>

## 09:30
### I am here. Now what?

Two days ago when I walked out from 23 Paskal Mall, I saw a dim sum restaurant with a long line. I marked that place so I can visit that place later.

And on this day, I was lining up for a table in this restaurant. They are non-halal due to pork as their main menu. I don't eat pork because I don't like it so it gives me a pass. Here is the menu for those who can read Indonesia. Use a translator if necessary.

// Pic here

I began to regret my choice. Waiting for a table was just a nightmare. I might miss my train if my schedule was not at 5 PM.
Nevermind. I already waited for so long that I had to buy two water bottles for 10K IDR just to make me stay hydrated.

## 12:00
### Finally, a table and some good warm food.

Ok, let's cut it short. On this table, there is a warm noodle with taro and chicken, salted egg pao, fish dim sum, and kaya toast.

I ate the Kaya Toast first. The bread was so hot that I needed to wait for another minute. The Kaya jam was light and creamy. The bread was so soft and also warm. Looks like this bread did not get toasted. From the texture, this bread might be steamed. Great appetizer.

Next, the noodle. I like how they fried the chicken and taro. It matches well with the noodles, The taro surprisingly tasted like a sweet potato. The chicken was also tender and yummy. The noodles were good and enjoyable and it was the best noodles I ate in Jakarta as of now.

The fish dim sum was good and light, yet I needed to dip it in chili oil to fully appreciate this dim sum. Definitely will order more if I have another chance.
Now for the masterpiece. The salted egg pao looks so great from the outside. Watch out for the gooey salted egg as it was oozing hot. You could suck the liquid or eat it with the pao. Either way, it will not disappoint you. It was just perfect.
Oh well, I was full so I could not order more. Besides, people were already waiting for their turn and I respect that.

// pic here

<FoodReview id="dimsum_9_naga"/>

## 12:48
### Honestly, I would never know if I were too tired or too full

But, I felt like I had no energy left just to explore the region. I mean, I already explored this square many times. My train will depart at 5 PM (4 PM if you take the feeder train to Padalarang from Bandung). With that in mind, I went to Mixue not far from that dim sum restaurant and I spent 13000 IDR for plain cold tea with vanilla ice cream and 3 hours of recharging my battery while chatting with my friends.

## 15:30
### This might be the shortest blog ever

I am on my way to Bandung Station yet again for my trip home to Jakarta. It was time for a temporary separation between me and the capital city of West Java.

After passing through miles of roofed walkways and entering the main gate, I was directed by the officers there to sit inside a special waiting room for Whoosh passengers. The seats were empty mostly. To be precise, there were 3 to 4 passengers inside including myself. I had no idea where the others went, yet here I am.

Exactly at 4:30 PM, the gate was opened and we were guided to the feeder train that would take us to Padalarang station for a transit to Whoosh train.

## 16:44
### Finally, another round of Whoosh transit, but with a minor twist 😞

Why? I was in a hurry for a toilet. Sheet! I was on the tip of the needle. AAARGH

Exiting the feeder train, walked through the crowd to the checking station (and I was using the QR code from my application to check in), walking and climbing the stairs just so I could stand on the other side of the track. AAARGGHHHH,

...

...

THANK LORD THIS IS THE FASTEST TRAIN IN INDONESIAThe gate opened and I rushed onto my assigned seat and ran directly into the toilet

...

and I forgot to lock the door. The entire show almost got ruined when someone opened the sliding door using the button (the sliding door can be controlled using buttons). I acted very fast and closed the door again and locked the door...

...

And I missed the first 3 minutes of departure. Too bad 😞
But no worries. Although the train did not reach its top 350 km/h speed once again, I was able to take some good footage.

// Video here

## Fin

I took the same route as my departure from Tanjung Duren BRT stop to Halim station in the opposite direction. Here is the map if you missed my 9th April blog.


And that is my entire trip to Bandung.
It took like a week to finish this blog due to procrastination. My family was also here and I could not share my trip with you guys for the next day of my holiday.

But I hope you enjoyed my amateur blog.

Terima kasih 😄