---
date: 20-01-2024
author: Neuron
path: blog/content/2024/20-01
title: 23rd March, 2024
keywords: 
---

# Ok where were we going? Ah right! Ragunan!

## Where am I?

*sigh...*
Let's be honest here...
The last semester of college tortures every single neuron (pun not intended) my brain has.
Every thing that I did reminds me of this f-in thing.

I eat, oh sheez I need to revise my diagram
I sleep, NO I HAVE TO FIX THESE BUGS
I walk... was my thesis good enough for graduation?

...

...

...

**B-**, that was relieving.
Now the horror of defending my own thesis is in my past. I need an urgent therapy and that is into the unknown of Jakarta and its surroundings hehe. I can finally travel with no flashbacks or any horrible debuffs. I have American level of freedom (well, at least till I submit my thesis's hardcover but nevermind)

## D-1
### Searching for a place

So, I have lots of places to be visited on my Google Maps. I need to make sure that I can visit at least two landmark places for this day. There are so much options like PIK, Mall of Indonesia, Bogor, etc. However, most of the places there requires a bike so I did not break my leg.

I still procrastinate myself so I do not have any kind of folding bicycle (yet) lol. Contact me if you are Jakartans and have any suggestions for me.

Anyway, I just remember myself that I haven't visitedf Jakarta's state-owned zoo yet (Ragunan). It is really acessible given their zoo is integrated well with their public transportation system. So, I marked that one.

Then, I scroll to the eastern side a bit and notices my own mark. It is AEON Mall Tanjung Barat. Sure it is far enough from Ragunan yet they also well integrated with Jakarta's transportation system.

I have no fear against distance as long as it is integrated enough with public transportation, so here goes nothing!

## 09:00

Ok you know the drill. We always start at Tanjung Duren's bus stop.
From there, I will take the usual route to Gelora Bung Karno's bus stop. Now here is the trickier part. The route to Ragunan starts from Galunggung. This is not too far from my current position yet I need to transit twice. After I stop at Dukuh Atas's station, I proceed to Galunggung's station which is directly connected with pedestrian's bridge. From there, you can take any bus that has `6` in their code.

It is pretty much empty surprisingly. Not just one or two, but at the ENTIRE stop. I have a feeling that Jakartans either have no interests for Ragunan or simply they are getting bored quickly.
Whatever the reason is, I cannot cancel my trip, so I pull out my phone and take some lovely pictures. Take a look :)

## 10:06
### 🐘 🫏

Welcome to Ragunan... bus stop for now.

After tappoing out from the bus stop, I take a walk for 3 minutes to reach the main gate. Ticket counters are closed mostly due to lack of visitors. There is only one still at service.

As for now, you can only enter using JakCard cards. Period. That card is provided by Bank DKI, a provincial bank that actively serves on Jakarta province. So, if you only have Flazz like me, then I am sorry. I have to sack off my 75K IDR for a card + 20K IDR credits. Take a note that a normal adult pass only costs 4K IDR per pax.
Since this is also the only card I can use for other places like Monas, I decided to just take their offer generously and pull out my cold hard cash. That's right, this state-owned center of attraction in Jakarta even cannot accept QRIS or bank transfer :(

Now I am inside. The zoo is so empty that it looks like it is deserted. Sure, there are some visitors but for a center of attraction inside Jakarta, it is so underwhelming.

Ok, now I am here. I have to enjoy this otherwise I am wasting my money.