---
date: 27-04-2024
author: Neuron
path: blog/content/2024/27-04
title: 27th April, 2024
keywords: alam sutera|rain|all-you-can-eat|dimsum|hat|my trip is ruined|I will come back|I promise|jogging accidentally
---



# Hello again

<Video src="https://youtu.be/_Jno-JPcb68"></Video>

I just want to be honest here
This is the first time I was visiting this place just to have fun. For this time, my primary goal is this all-you-can-eat for Dimsum. This might be the first place that offers AYCE dim sum. It is located in Alam Sutera, a complex that is in Tangerang, bordering Jakarta.

## 09:00

The trip needs less transportation but needs more walking. After packing things up, I set foot at a bus stop in Tanjung Duren. I said bus stop because the bus that I would ride would stop here. This is a Non-BRT route code-named S11. It serves Jakartans who have the will to ride to the Alam Sutera area without using private vehicles.
After waiting for 20 minutes or more, the bus arrives. It is a low-deck bus that can carry approximately 50 commuters.
The ride took 30 minutes or more due to the distance. This bus rides above the toll road, so while it takes a long ride, it is a better option.

<Transportation id="bus-1"/>

## 09:51

I stopped myself at Bundaran Alam Sutera 1 bus stop near a gas station. I already reserved my place for AYCE dim sum at 2 PM to make sure I can explore this area before eating. I took that liberty to admire the road that was packed with private vehicles

## 10:00

My first stop was this Living World Alam Sutera. It is a medium-sized mall with a plethora of outlets for food, beverages, and toys. There was a pet area and Hot Wheels atrium here.
The mall is squeaky clean I could say. I am not that good at reviewing malls because it tends to do the same with others, so do take a look!

## 10:50

I haven't had my breakfast and skipping breakfast might be the greatest crime committed to my entire population of Neuron's inside. I tend to avoid full breakfast so I went to this sushi outlet that costs 15K per small plate.
I could not review much here aside from the salmon being ok, beef hamburg was not that cold and ok for the budget. If you are on a budget and somehow craving for sushi, try this.
They usually offer 10K per plate for every Monday.

<FoodReview id="sushi"/>

## 11:50

Moving on, I decided to move my reservation forward to 13:00 due to how early I came here and how close I am to my AYCE reservation.
It was still noon, so I took the liberty to travel a bit for 40 mins. It was not that exciting, just the tip of the walk. After 35 minutes of walking, I began to fasten my speed. The cloud began to tear up. Luckily it did not proceed to go all-out.

## 12:50

By the way, I came here 10 minutes earlier and the waitresses allowed me to sit. The menu was pretty good. It already includes basic dim sum such as Pao and Char siew. For 199K (excluding tax), it was a good deal although drinks were not included.
Well..  until I saw this chicken foot with wasabi. Chicken feet are not on my list, but holy lord.. why the hell does this even exist? Is that any good reason for this? Oh no no! Even my Chinese friends are in fury.
Oh well, whatever. I only rate for what I eat.

<FoodReview id="dimsum"/>

## 14:00

Great dining experience. Thank you
Now, for my next stop is Mall @ Alam Sutera. My primary reason to go there is because of the go-kart lane and gachapon and also because I have never been there for once.
Well.. all goes well until... 🌧
I was pretty much f-ed right now. I ran to seek shelter and stayed for 2 hours outside.

Another short blog, I guess 😔

<Transportation id="online-1"/>

## 17:00

After taking an Uber to the Mall and desperately finding an electric socket to charge my phone, I just chillin out waiting for my phone until I realized.

"F---, DAFAK IS MY HAT?"
...
Long story short, I ran away from the mall to my last shelter place. After finding nothing, I ran away again for 20-30 minutes to that Dimsum restaurant.
Thank Lord I got my hat back...

...

## Fin
So.. that was it. I took an Uber again and rode my way to the nearest train station because I was too tired. I had no idea that this trip could turn up so bad, especially in an area that was not friendly to non-vehicle havers.

<Transportation id="online-2"/>
<Transportation id="train-1"/>

I would come back there. I promise. Gachapon is still not checked!