---
date: 27-01-2024
author: Neuron
path: blog/content/2024/27-01
title: 27th January, 2024
keywords: blok m|lebak bulus grab|poins mall|monas|masjid istiqlal|katedral jakarta
---

# My plan almost got knocked out tehe

Ok welcome back. I hope I deliver my blog well last time.
So here is the thing... I already run out of ideas on where I should go for this day, so I decide to revisit some of the places and document them again here.

My itinerary was as follows:
* Go to Museum Nasional Indonesia and explore and learn about history
* Go to Monumen Nasional (Monas), take a picture, and go inside.
* Go to Masjid Istiqlal and Katedral Jakarta, take some pictures, and admire their beautiful architecture
* Go inside their Terowongan Silaturahmi (Friendship Underpass) and admire their commitment of being united as Indonesian despite religious differences.
* Eat something. Budget is 150K

## 09:00
### Preparing my things

As usual, I only brought my phone, cap, filled water bottle, umbrella, and book in case I want to draw something.
Yup, it was raining... I did not expect this to happen yesterday, yet here I was. As a newbie tabibito, I could not let the rain locked me inside. I am a free boy and always be. So, I packed my things and walked outside with my umbrella.

First stop, Monas train station. The route using Transjakarta was significantly altered because of the massive MRT and revitalization project.
Here is a brief summary of what you can do. I live near `Tanjung Duren`
* You can take a bus number 3F and drop on `Gelora Bung Karno` station, then take number 1 and drop on `Monas`.
* You can also take number 8 that is heading to `Pasar Baru` station, but you **Need to drop yourself off inside** `Pecenongan` station. From there, take number 2 to `Monas`

<Transportation id="bus-1"/>

## 09:45
### For f- sake???

Ok I had to admit I did not do adequate research. The museum was still in renovation.

So for context, this National Museum was being ravaged by fire on 16th September, 2023. Coded-A building is the exact building that was being engulfed in fire<Citation id="museum-1">. The museum was said to be closed at least till the end of 2023 where lots of scholars, historians, polices, and others were working on identifying and restoring affected artifacts<Citation id="museum-2">. So let us give them our support so it can be open to public soon.

Ok back to myself, since it was raining and the museum was still closed, I have to craft another trip plan. It did not have to be good. It only needed to be ok so I did not stand with brain empty.

After minutes of being empty inside Monas bus station, I craft my new plan as follows
* Go to `Blok M` station and try their pasta on cone.
* Go to the furthest station MRT can reach, which is `Lebak Bulus Grab`. Explore around a bit.
* If the rain has stopped, go back to `Monas` train station and go to the place I planned at the start of this blog.

That is a good plan I guess, so I set off from Monas train station and take number 1 to Blok M, the furthest station I can go

<Transportation id="bus-2"/>

## 10:25
### Welcome to Blok M. Enjoying my brunch

We reach the furthest point number 1 bus can reach. It looks pretty old although it reached its glory years ago, but now I could see only their remains...

So after tapping out, I go inside their terminal. It was a soothing experience that I can see someone still opens their foodstall. I haven't had my breakfast so it would be a perfect chance to get one.

I found this clean and appetizing beef soto stand. The stall was surprisingly clean compared to average foos stand. I ordered a bowl of beef soto and a place of rice. Since I brought my water from home, I did not see any purpose of ordering a drink.

Let's just say that this beef soto is not your average soto. It taste refreshing. I could say they are not into exploding and wow type of taste. It was refreshing and can be enjoyed with calm and tranquility tehe. The meat was perfectly cooked and chewable. The risol was still crunchy and adds a minor kick to the eating experience.

Oh did I mention that the rice is still warm? Adding the fact that it was still raining heavily, this was the best meal I ever had. 25K? I would definitely come back and you should try this also.

<FoodReview id="warung_soto_asep">

## 10:35
### On my way to a park... for a pasta

After my delicious brunch, I head to the exit. The exit I chose was the exit for MRT station. The surroundings were surreal. I could clearly tell that this terminal already lost its glory several years ago. There was only one clothing retailer I met and so happy it could still stands. Here is a montage for you.

We are out! I grabbed my umbrella to protect myself. The next destination was just minutes away. The park did not have much going on but you would better believe that this park usually got crowded on evening time.

After a bit of admiring, I went inside one of the pasta stores that serves your pasta inside a cone (no, not an ice cream cone). I ordered Penne Pollo Pesto because I never tasted Pesto paste before. Although there was only me in a waiting line, the cooking time took 5-10 minutes.

I am waiting for the inventors to made a device that can record fragrance and smell. i kid you not, this was the best pasta I ever had, hands down. The pasta was aldete, the sauce was on a top tier.
Sure the chicken breast might be a bit dry, but that was why you have to eat it together with the pasta. It was a perfect combination. 
As with your usual pasta, this amount of portion would keep you full for half a day.

<FoodReview id="pasta">

## 11:34
### I might already broke my spending limit, but nevermind and show me the next location!

Pasta done, now to fill in my day, I took a walk to the nearest MRT station, called `Blok M BCA`. You could also use your prepaid card to pay for this service although the price depends on how long you will travel.

After a security check on my belongings, I went up and wait for the rail train.
And sure enough, it arrived not long after.

I could say the train looks so modern and polished. Thanks to whoever brought this kind of project to life.

My next stop: `Lebak Bulus Grab`
<Transportation id="mrt-1"/>

## 12:02
### Final destination: Lebak Bulus M

The first time I stepped my foot on the furthest MRT station. Honestly I have no plan on what I would do here until I saw a direction board that points to `Poins Mall`. Not too excited but at least I would travel to new place.

The track was elegant and modern. Everything looked polished and futuristic with curved rooftop and minimalist design. I expected that the shopping mall would offer as elegant as mall in central Jakarta or its surroundings.

The entrance was unique and as soon as I actually inside the mall, the true confition started to form. Looks like a hybrid between plaza and mall to be fair. I was at 2nd or 3rd floor so I traveled all the way to G floor because all journey starts from bottom 😄

Not much to see aside from this beautiful dancing competition which I enjoyed watching for a while,

And a supermarket which I brought two bottles of water.

And also a toasted bread with butter and sugar because why not tehe.
<FoodReview id="hang_tuah">

And also a montage of my travel inside the mall

## 13:45
### The rain calmed a lot compared from before. Let us go back to initial plan

Ok enough for the mall critique. I took the same route to go back to `Lebak Bulus Grab` station and this time, I would take a route that goes from end-to-end and it costs 14K. Here is the detail:
<Transportation id="mrt-2"/>

Maybe you already start to wonder on those brand names embedded on the station. Well, there's a thing called `naming rights`. In lament terms, you can theoretically contact the management of MRT and buy a right to name your station. This is the alternative way for transportation company to generate revenue<Citation id="naming">. Sure, those company are funded by your ticket and government, however it would be better to have a side revenue in case the government cuts the funding.

Ok back to my travel. In order to go to Monas, I had to walk to `Bundaran HI Astra` bus station and took a route using number 1 to `Monas` again. Here is the detail.
<Transportation id="mrt-3"/>

## 14:37
### The only thing people knew about Jakarta's landmark

Well, the name of this bus station has an obvious reason behind the name. The walking distance from the bus stationn to actual Monas was not that far although you need to work out your feet more. The distance from the entrance gate to the point you can saw the monument clearly would hurt your feet a bit.

The wide area surrounding Monas would open till 16:00 so make sure you came here sooner.

The entrance was 40K for firsttime guest because you need to make a new prepaid card. I was tempted to enter their museum and went to the top, but the tickets had already sold out...

well... sorry but this destination will pop up again sometime in another blog :)...

## 15:07
### Largest mosque and cathedral in Indonesia... unites under one country.

